Hello everyone and welcome to lecture on stock splits and dividends.
Let's quickly discuss why companies split their stock and also give out dividends stock splits usually
occur if the price for an individual stock becomes unreasonably high so that companies essentially do
is it just create a ratio split.
For example one stock is now worth two stocks or one stock is now worth three stocks.
Thus they can drop the price and make it more accessible to other consumers to purchase their stock
because stock splits could cause errors for algorithms looking for price changes.
Well we end up using is the adjusted close price which is just the historical prices to match up and
take into account stock splits often stocks will also pay dividends.
That is for each unit of stock.
Each shareholder receives some payout for each unit that they own.
This causes the price to jump before the dividend announcement and then drop after the dividend is paid
out.
The adjusted close price also takes this into account.
So it's important to note to always use adjusted close prices.
Otherwise you may be affected by stock splits and dividends in your pricing strategies.
And that's why we've been using a justed close or at just that open instead of just open high lower
close and throughout the rest of the course we're always going to be using these adjusted values.
One last thing to take into account is something called survivorship bias.
If we take a look at the S&P 500 benchmark today it is a different set of companies than let's say in
the year 1999 which is the peak of the dot com bubble.
After the dot com crash many companies that were in the S&P 500 no longer existed or became too small
to be part of that 500 companies.
So meaning that the time actually picked the S&P 500 could possibly matter especially if it's part of
your trading strategy.
If we were creating strategies in the early 2000s we may have heavily used the S&P 500.
But if we didn't take into account the earlier make up of the S&P 500 you would end up having a bias
in our results due to that dot com crash many of the strategies we provide later on won't be affected
by this sort of outcome too much.
But keep in mind in case you end up using a benchmark as part of your strategy and you want to back
to 2007 kind of right before the financial crisis where a bunch of companies got delisted from the S&P
500 you may need to take survivorship bias into account.
So you can actually buy survivor bias free data from a variety of sources including Quando.
Keep in mind that usually not free although it isn't very expensive either.
So you can check out quando premium or other sources for the latest pricing.
Keep that in mind.
In case you ever have a strategy that is really dependent on the actual benchmarks and it happens to
be back tested to a certain time period where certain companies were delisted from the benchmark you
want to look for a survivor bias free data set to work with.
All right.
Those are just a few notes to discuss.
In reality a lot of the trading strategies were going to be using won't be affected too heavily by either
of these topics.
And we're always going to be using the adjusted close prices so we won't be affected by stock splits
or dividends either.
Thanks everyone and I'll see at the next lecture.